Animated videos, like those in this series become Jehovah's Friend, have been helping young ones
draw closer to their Heavenly Father for several years now.
Look, Mom. I'm rejoicing in the hope.
Wee!
But did you know?
What you see on the screen might last just a few short minutes.
But it may involve weeks of work,
by a virtual army of volunteers.
With so much time and expense involved in making an animated video,
a lot of careful planning is required to avoid waste
and keep the process running smoothly.
Let's take a look at how effective use of pre-production tools
help all these brothers and sisters work together
to take a video from initial concept to a final production.
Under the direction of the teaching committee of the governing body,
the work begins long before the artist even gets started.
They provide the direction on the theme that needs to be taught.
Members of the animation team collaborate to develop the featured characters
as well as plot structure.
And we're closely with writers and storyboard artists
to develop the approved idea into a storyline.
Once a complete script is ready, the whole team gathers together for a table read.
This is the first time the team hears the whole script being read aloud.
Dialogs meant to be heard.
So when we read it aloud at the table read,
we pick up on things we didn't see in the written script.
We're able to tighten the story and make it as clear as possible.
The script is reviewed by the research team for accuracy.
Then it's revised, polished, and submitted to the teaching committee for approval.
With an approved script in hand, the director then works with an artist
to start turning words into pictures,
visualizing each scene on a storyboard.
First come the rough boards, showing what will be included in each shot.
When it comes to the animation world,
everything you see on screen has to be designed and created.
From the characters, furniture, the props, the environment are all created by a designer.
The storyboard really helps us figure out what exactly we need to create
so that we're not creating too much or too little.
Once approved by the director, the storyboard artist cleans up each of the boards.
Preliminary recordings of dialogue, music,
and sound effects are added.
These are then used by the director and compositor to create an animatic.
An animatic is a rough draft of the entire video.
The animatic is very important for us.
Now with the director and more importantly the teaching committee,
they can see the entire video before actually making it.
And with that they can review it and give us a proper direction.
The finished animatic is submitted to the teaching committee for review.
Based on direction from the committee,
the team makes sure that the teaching points come across clearly
and that the finished product is true to the spirit
and intent of the approved concept for the video.
Finally, using the approved animatic as a blueprint,
full production begins.
Really everything in animation can be very time consuming.
An animator working full time here at Bethel
may be able to produce four to six seconds of animation in one week.
And that doesn't even include other aspects that are very important,
such as modeling, rigging, lighting, compositing, and many others.
From the examples shown here,
you can see just how closely the final version of the video
make Jehovah happy follows the animatic.
Pre-production tools, such as storyboards and animatics,
do more than save the organization time and money.
They enable the teaching committee to carefully evaluate
every project along the way.
From the initial approved concept to the final product,
in order to keep providing videos that help all of us honor our friend, Jehovah.